at doles benedito farm in Costa Rica the
combination of perfect growing
conditions and sustainable farming
techniques allows us to harvest premium
bananas year-round it takes 12 to 13
weeks from the time the banana plants
fruit stem first appears to the time the
bananas are harvested experienced dole
Benin arrows measure the banana fingers
on each plant to determine if the fruit
is ready to harvest harvesting takes
place six days a week
a team of three Benin eros will harvest
the plants in this section of the farm
bananas are harvested while they are
still green so they can ripen to
perfection just as they reach consumers
first protective foam padding is
inserted to safeguard the sensitive
banana hands from spotting and other
skin damage the entire stem is cut off
with the machete on to the waiting
shoulders of a Benin arrow wearing a
protective pad the leaves of the
harvested mother plant are cut off and
the remaining stock provides nutrients
to the new daughter plant the cut leaves
are left on the ground where they will
become nutrient rich QMS for the next
generation of banana plants the
veterinary carries the bunch which
weighs about 65 pounds to the nearby
cableway system 175 bunches are
harvested and loaded onto the cableway
system the Train of banana stems is
pulled back to the packing plant at the
center of the farm usually with the aid
of a mule the cableway system
encompasses all the fields on our farm
and is about 80 miles in total length as
the bunches arrive at the packing
station the protective pads are removed
from the hands and sent back to the
field to be used again
for quality control each train of
bananas is numbered and the location of
the harvest as well as the harvesting
team is recorded the fresh bananas are
washed with chlorinated water and
thoroughly inspected if the bananas do
not meet doles stringent quality
standards harvesting is immediately
halted in the field from which they
originated banana hands are cut from the
stem and placed in a tank of water to
protect them and to remove the excess
latex found naturally in bananas the
leftover banana stems and the protective
plastic bags are then recycled a gentle
water current in the tank moves the
banana hands to the next station where
they receive another quality inspection
and are cut into clusters of five to
seven fingers the clusters float to the
next workstation where they are removed
from the water tank and placed on trays
scales are programmed to accept the
correct amount of bananas per ship and
carton the trays are then transported by
conveyor to the next workstation where
they receive the worldwide symbol of
exceptional quality the Dole sticker the
cut stems then receive a post harvest
treatment to preserve freshness the
bananas are now ready to be packed into
boxes specifically designed for
long-distance transport these boxes are
assembled right on-site for quality
control
Packers personally identify each box
they pack
banana clusters are carefully laid in
the box using methods that minimize any
damage during shipment each box contains
about 40 pounds of bananas the bananas
are wrapped in specially perforated
material which allows the fruit to ripen
while in the boxes to meet each
customer's specific needs dole bananas
are packaged several different ways
loose banana hands single bananas and
sealed in consumer bags a last wait
check ensures that each box contains the
correct amount of fruit the entire
process from harvest to box is only 2 to
3 hours
the boxes are then stacked on pallets in
preparation for transport for quality
control and traceability throughout the
shipping process each pallet is given
its own unique collet identification
code as part of our commitment to
sustainability the corner boards are
made from recycled materials sometimes
cardboard is used but usually they are
composed of recycled plastic created
from the bags utilized to protect our
bananas in the field once full the
pallets are loaded into shipping
containers that will take them to a dole
ship at a nearby port as you have seen
the nana's are quite delicate so very
little of our process is automated to
bring you this healthy delicious fruit
dedicated workers provide hands-on care
and attention at every stage
you